Now when we took the couch into unity we took it in as two different objects.
And I did that to be able to access the individual materials that we needed so we needed one material
to be able to do the texture for the fabric and we needed another material to do the wood for the legs.
Now just because we need multiple materials doesn't mean we necessarily need multiple objects.
So that's kind of the reason I did the walls the way I did here.
Let me press shift h to isolate that and then I'll press the period key again to frame that Slyke that
object up.
Now what I want here is I want one texture on the wall and a different texture on the baseboard.
So let me actually just extrude this baseboard out just a tiny bit.
I'm going to hit the e key to extrude and then I'm going to hold the shift key down and move the mouse
out just a little bit.
So it's about like that just a little bit of an edge on that baseboard.
Now I could have made the wall its own object and the baseboard its own object just create a cube and
scale it to make the baseboard.
But I want to just talk about yet another way to export and import objects from Blender into unity.
So let's take this wall for an example and I'm going to go ahead and create seams for the U.V. map so
I'll select this edge here.
And I'm just going to select the edge all the way around the baseboard.
It looks like pressing Allt and shift got me all the way around.
That's good so I'm in a press control me and Mark.
I'm also going to split out this portion of the wall this is the part that's going to be seen so I want
to just press control and Mark seem here as well.
So the rest of the wall back here is really not going to be used.
But what I'm doing is I'm giving the wall some thickness to prevent light leaking in unity.
Sometimes if you bring in a single plane you can get light leak through the walls if you're dealing
with an interior scene.
Now there are ways to get around that as well.
There's always other ways to do things though.
But that's why I'm using thicknesse on the wall here.
All right so we have our seams on our wall actually.
I might even come in here and get really persnickety and put a couple of seems right here and way over
here on the other side.
Just a couple of seams right here as well.
All right.
So now let's go to our U-V editor right over here.
And I'm just going to select all the objects or Scuse me all the polygons with the a key press you and
unwrap and so there we have the map.
Now if we switch from angle based to conformal look how big of a difference there is.
And you can see up here it says object has nonuniform scale and that's a clue I think as you switch
back from Angle base to conformal that you need to come in and apply your transforms to get uniform
scale.
If I hit the end key again we can take a look up here and see an object node that the scale is nonuniform.
So in Object mode I'll just press control a and apply rotation in scale and there we go.
So now when we come back into Edit Mode hit you and unwrap Here's conformal Here's angle based not a
whole lot of difference.
However I do like conformal a little better there.
Now just while we're here I may need to know at some point in time when we go into Photoshop which U-V
Island is the baseboard and which is the actual front of the wall.
It may be a little confusing here as to which is which.
So if I come down here and turn this little guy right down here keep U-V in edit mode mesh selection
in sync.
If I turn that on now if I go to face mode and select a face over here it highlights over here so you
can see that that face is right here and if I select this wall there is the U-V island there so I've
got the baseboard on top and the wall here beneath it.
And down here is the back of the wall but the back of the wall does not need to be this large.
In fact we could shrink that down quite a bit so we can get a little bit more just a little bit more
resolution in our U-V map for our wall and our baseboard.
So if I come back over here and turn this off select everything over here so I can see all of these.
I'm now choosing to select my U-V islands here with this option.
So if I select Now the back wall I can hit s and shrink it way down and maybe put it over here in a
corner I don't need that.
Now what I can do is press control up arrow and make this full screen and then I'll just select these
two U-V islands and scale them up just a bit so I get a little bit more resolution out of it.
Can't get a whole lot but that'll work.
We could put more in this U-V island or this U-V map.
But for now let's go with this.
All right.
So I'm going to get control up arrow to shrink that down again and now as I mentioned we need to split
out the materials or create a material for the wall and the baseboard so that unity will see the different
materials and to do that all we need to do is just select the individual faces and assign them.
All right so we have this movie map.
However if we go back here you know what I think if I hit the tab key to go to object mode and press
alt h to bring everything back I think what we need to do is actually split this wall out from the wall
that would be here because within the kitchen it's going to have I think a paint texture.
And in the living room it's going to have a really ugly worn down torn bit of wallpaper.
So I think I'm going to need to scale this and duplicate it.
So let me do that.
I'm going to scale this in the y axis with X and Y and bring this down a bit.
Move it over some and then scale it back out just a hair and we go now to duplicate this hit the Y key
to move it in the y axis and bring this over here.
And then I'll scale this down here in the y axis with x and y.
Let's try that.
Here we go.
All right so now we've got two different walls for the two different parts of the apartment.
One for the kitchen one for the living room.
All right so let me go back real quick and just reuse the map.
This piece right here I'm going to press shift h period key tab into edit mode you and unwrap and there
we go.
Once again I've got nonuniform scale hit control a notation and scale and do that one more time.
There we go.
That looks a little better.
I'll scale down that back of the wall again and I'll scale up the actual part of the wall that we will
use.
And we go all right.
I think that'll make a little more sense.
So now that we have our wall the right size and U-V map let's go ahead and assign our materials to it
I'll go to the materials panel over here and recall this is one that I created by just clicking and
dragging this little corner tab out this panel doesn't come automatically with the U-V editing screen
layout.
I just created this earlier but I'll hit the New button.
I'll call this wall living room back.
And then I will tab into edit mode select this one face here and press control plus key on the numpad
to expand the selection out to encompass all of the baseboard.
Then I'll create a new material slot for this object right here.
And in that new material slot in the object I will create a new material and we'll call this baseboard
living back wall and then I would click a sign and there we go.
So now if we take a look at this I'll hit the Z key to go to wireframe if I choose that wall.
Living back and click select everything highlights except the baseboard.
I can hit de-select here and now if I select the baseboard and click select only the baseboard is selected.
So now we have two materials assigned to our one object and unity will see this as we take this object
in.
Now I'm gonna need to go through and do this for all the other walls as well.
But while we're here what I want to do is go ahead and work on the doorframes on a press alt h to bring
everything back and let me grab this doorframe right here and press shift h to isolate it period key
to focus it.
And let's take a look at creating argufy map of this.
Now one thing about doorways is that they usually have a little extrusion inside here where the door
fits.
So before I U-V map it I better insert those edge loops and extrude that I'll press control are.
And let's do two.
I just scroll the mouse wheel to get one more extra edge there and click and click again and I will
press S and y to scale these in a bit.
And click.
And then I'll move them forward just a bit like that because the door is going to be here on this side
of the door jamb.
And then I can go to face mode all click and edge between two of the faces to select that whole face
loop.
And now I want to extrude all hit E and the Enter key.
So now what I want to do is just scale these in I'll scale it first in the X all it s and X and scale
that in just a smidge.
I'll press the shift key to move a little slower here like that and then I'll de-selected these two
and with this face still psyched it all pulled down just a hair right there.
All right.
Now we can delete the faces on the bottom we don't need those.
And there we go.
So there we have the door jamb for that.
I'll just U-V map this and then duplicate it for the other two doors.
Maybe we can create seams here all the way around maybe here.
And maybe here as well so we can split these out.
Let's get this corner as well.
All right so let's see how this works I will press control.
Mark seem and then select everything press you and unwrap.
How do we do.
Not too bad.
Once again nonuniform scale.
Go back to object mode control a rotation scale.
Now let's say that you and unwrap and there we have it a little bit more in line with the proportion
and scale of the actual object.
That's not bad.
Let's take a look at angle based and conformal.
Not much difference at all and that's what I mean by when you see a large difference in your U-V map
between conformal and angle based.
You may want to go back and apply the transformations so you have a uniform scale before you unwrap.
All right so I've got that done.
I'm going to go back to the default view and let's just copy these back over alt h to bring everything
back.
And I think I'll just take this door frame and this one and go ahead and delete them.
Select this one and duplicate shifty hit the x key and slide it over here chiff D.
This time I'll press the Y key for y axis and move it over here.
So what I will do before the next video is I'll go ahead and go through and U-V map the other walls
and then we'll begin taking these into unity and see how they look.